---
layout: post
title: Domain Controllers Audit Policy Best Practices
---

In our daily job as PFEs one of the most common questions we are asked in the Active Directory field, is what is the recommended Audit Policy to have in our Domain Controllers.


As always we recommend first going to docs.microsoft.com to find the documented recommendations and best practices for our products.

## Question 1: Audit Policy vs Advanced Audit Policy, which one to use?

Audit Policies come with Windows since Windows 2000 times. These are the original nine categories that can be used for every Windows version. Beginning in Windows Vista/2008, we introduced the Advanced Audit Policy categories, to enhance the granularity of the events being recorded.

We can find these settings in these sections:

 - 'Legacy' Audit Policy: Computer Configuration\Windows Settings\Security Settings\Local Policies\Audit Policy
 - Advanced Audit Policy: Computer Configuration\Windows Settings\Security Settings\Advanced Audit Policy Configuration

We don't recommend using both categories at the same time, since it might lead to unexpected resultant settings being applied. As a best practice we recommend to enable this setting: Audit: Force audit policy subcategory settings (Windows Vista or later) to override audit policy category settings policy setting under Local Policies\Security Options.

> Best Practice #1: Always use the Advanced Audit Policy settings instead of legacy settings

> Best Practice #2: Always use the **Audit: Force audit policy subcategory settings (Windows Vista or later) to override audit policy category settings** policy setting

## Question 2: Too many categories to choose from, don't know what to select

A detailed process on what event categories to choose might be a lenghful task, that will involve identifying which event numbers are generated by each category, which, the frequency of those events, long time log archiving, meeting compliance regulations etc.
So, what if want a quick answer?. Well, our official answer is to look for our baselines using Security Compliance Toolkit: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/threat-protection/security-compliance-toolkit-10. These baselines contains a wide range of security policies (not only for Audit Policies but should be used as your baseline for defining your Domain Security).

DO you want a detailed list of the Policy categories and which events are generated by each category? https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/previous-versions/windows/it-pro/windows-server-2012-r2-and-2012/dn452415(v=ws.11)#:~:text=DS%20Access%20security%20audit%20policy,Audit%20Detailed%20Directory%20Service%20Replication 

You might think "very nice, but I don't have time to go through all that documentation and process, I need a quick reference of the recommended categories", well, just go to this link https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/identity/ad-ds/plan/security-best-practices/audit-policy-recommendations#set-audit-policy-on-workstations-and-servers, and implement all the categories under the "Stronger Recommendation" column that are marked as DC (for Domain Controller). Add all that to your Default Domain Controllers Policy (or create a different GPO linked to the Domain Controllers OU) and voila you updated the audit settings to MSFT recommendations.


> Best Practice #3: Always check the Updated Security Baselines with Security Compliance Toolkit, and regularly review them

> Best Practice #4: If you need something very quick to start, review the recommendations in this article: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/identity/ad-ds/plan/security-best-practices/audit-policy-recommendations#set-audit-policy-on-workstations-and-servers

